# McGill-ModelBasedProgramming-Project
Kingdomino Application Project for Model-Based Programming class at McGill university. 

## Iteration 1: Domain Model, Constraints, GUI Mockup
Create a domain model of the Kingdomino application with Umple that is sufficiently detailed to cover all features of the game (see a complete list of features in the Project Overview document already shared with you). The domain model must show all the concepts, their attributes, and their relationships in a UML Class Diagram documented in the wiki of your GitHub repository using the Markdown language. You do not need to show any operations in your domain model.

In the wiki of your GitHub repository, specify the 10 most important (interesting) constraints of the Kingdomino application, which are not covered by your domain model using a structured natural language. For navigation expressions, use the appropriate role names in your domain model precisely.
Create a project in Eclipse for your Kingdomino application. Place your Umple file in the root source folder of your project. Then, generate Java code from your domain model with Umple in the following package:
• ca.mcgill.ecse223.kingdomino.model
Commit your project including the Umple file and generated code to your repository in the GitHub organization of the course

As a team, create a UI mock-up including all features which are linked to the user interface (UI). State explicitly in your project report if a feature will not be available from the UI. While each team member will be responsible for the UI of her/his assigned features in Deliverable 4, but since the features need to be integrated into a common UI, this is a shared responsibility for Deliverable 1. As a team, you also need to ensure that the look and feel of the application is uniform across all features.
You may choose your favorite drawing tool for the UI mock-up or a UI prototyping tool such as Pencil (https://pencil.evolus.vn/) and then import the mock-up into your project report. You may also draw the UI mock-up by hand, scan it (or take a photo), and include it in your report as long as the mock-up is clearly legible. Your GUI mockups shall be documented as part of your project report of Deliverable 1 on the wiki page with a uniform look and formatting.

## Iteration 2: Controller Implementation
You need to individually specify all operations for your assigned features in the Controller interface (which interface needs to be placed in the ca.mcgill.ecse223.kingdomino.controller package). The interface consists of the full method declaration (incl. parameters, return type, etc.) relevant for your assigned features. In addition to all modifier methods, do not forget to include all query methods required for the features. The same query method may be used for several features. As a team, ensure the consistent use of query methods across features.
Each controller method needs to be briefly documented using JavaDoc (see public tutorials, e.g.: https://www.baeldung.com/javadoc), but you are not required to generate standalone HTML files. The JavaDoc specification should clearly state the name of the corresponding Gherkin feature and the name of the team member who is responsible for it.

In this deliverable, your main goal is to implement the controller code for the required 24 features of the Kingdomino application. The application you need to develop includes both the model, and the controller for the 24 features but it excludes the view (i.e. the GUI code).
Evenly assign the Kingdomino features to your team members, i.e., each team member is individually responsible for four features. If there are fewer than six team members in your team, the remaining features have to be implemented by the whole team or designated members of your team (e.g. volunteers in your team). Note that you need to clearly record the assignment of features in the Statement of Work document (see Section 5). Each team member will be graded individually based on the quality of the implementation of the assigned features. However, the whole team is also responsible for the Kingdomino application (e.g. completeness, integration and build issues), thus you application will also be assessed as a whole.
Each team is required to use the common Umple domain model provided to you to ensure compatibility for later deliverables. Note that any public Model helper method will have to be added to the common Umple domain model. As such, the Umple model can be extended, but existing definitions in the Umple model cannot be changed! You are required to use the code generated by Umple.
Note that the Kingdomino features are not independent but rather depend on each other in various ways. It is not a valid argument to claim that your feature does not work because another feature is not working and that your feature is working perfectly by itself. If your feature is not working for whatever reason, you will lose marks. If a team member does not manage to implement an assigned feature, then the team members of dependent features need to step up. Furthermore, this needs to be stated clearly in the Statement of Work Distribution (see Section 5).

Each team member is individually responsible for providing a mapping of each step in the Gherkin scenarios of the features they are responsible to the actual Java code of your group. Individual responsibilities of Gherkin step mappings should clearly be documented in the JavaDoc header (@author) of each step mapping code. As part of this deliverable:
• Implement the Given clauses to bring you application into a designated initial state.
• Map all actions (When clause) to calls to your Controller method.
• Implement all Then clauses by using the Umple instance model (Kingdomino object) or an appropriate query method.
• Ensure that your project successfully compiles (no compile errors).
• Ensure that the execution of Gherkin steps can be successfully initiated by Cucumber (using the Gradle build file provided to you in the initial content of the source code base).
• Ensure that all Gherkin scenarios pass successfully as acceptance tests.

## Iteration 3: State Machines
You need to implement state-based behavior for the major flow of the Kingdomino gameplay. A set of Gherkin scenarios are provided to you in a separate branch (iteration-3) which you need to integrate into your source code repository. The draft of an Umple file is also provided to you in Gameplay.ump as a starting point in the same branch.
All relevant triggers, guards and actions in your statemachine (on transitions as well as in states) need to be defined in (public or private) methods. A state machine itself may only show which methods are called for guards and actions. All new methods need to be documented using JavaDoc.
You are required to use the pre-declared methods in your statemachine “as-is” (i.e. you still need to provide their implementation). Moreover, you are allowed to define extra private methods if you need. You need to use the automated code generation support of Umple to derive a fully functional implementation of the two features from the state machine.
The source code automatically generated from the statemachine specification (as well as from the domain model) has to be committed to the GitHub repository using the predefined naming pattern.

You need to define two methods in the Controller interface to interact with the statemachine(s) by triggering relevant events and accepting calls (as part of actions) from the statemachine. Any new methods need to be documented using JavaDoc.
By the end of this Deliverable, one could play an entire Kingdomino game by calling the relevant methods of controller (as if it were a command line application), but no graphical user interface is provided yet.
Each team is required to use the common Umple domain model provided to you. The Umple model can be extended, but existing definitions in the Umple model cannot be changed! You are required to use the code generated by Umple.
The whole team is also responsible for implementing the statemachine of the Kingdomino application. Your application will be assessed as a whole.

The mapping of each step in the Gherkin scenarios need to be assigned to individual team members documented in the JavaDoc header (@author) of each step mapping code. Nevertheless, the mapping of Gherkin steps will be graded for the entire team this time (with shared responsibility). As part of this deliverable, you will need to:• Connect the When clause to trigger a step in your statemachine.
• Implement all missing Given clauses to ensure that your statemachine is in the designated source state before executing a test case.
• Implement all And clauses which are related to relevant guards in the statemachine.
• Implement all Then clauses to check for appropriate actions and target states.
• All of these steps shall use the Umple instance model (Kingdomino object) or an appropriate query method (similarly to Iteration 2).
• Ensure that your project successfully compiles (no compile errors).
• Ensure that the execution of Gherkin steps can be successfully initiated by Cucumber (using the Gradle build file provided to you in the initial content of the source code base).
• Ensure that all Gherkin scenarios pass successfully as acceptance tests.

